Its very soothing for the eyes.
Very easy on the eyes.
No fatigue or strain after extended periods of reading.
Most users do not encounter eyestrain.
The larger font sizes and adjustments to the shade of gray make the Kindle work good for users.
Most users do not encounter eyestrain.
The larger font sizes and adjustments to the shade of gray make the Kindle work good for users.
E-ink makes it very easy on the eyes.
Allowed to make changes in the font size are an added advantage.
Gas mileage is below what is expected.
Gas mileage is below what is expected.
The gas mileage on the camry was not good as it was advertised to be.
Gas mileage is good once car is broken in.
The gas mileage on the camry was not good as it was advertised to be.
Averaging around 25mpg on the highway does not make it a standout among other makes and models on the road.
Its very easy and fast to navigate.
You navigate the new Kindle using a 5 way controller.
Much improved over the previous version of the Kindle.
Navigation is quick and easy.
The pages are easy to flip, the menu is easy to navigate.
New navigation system is fast and efficient.
Navigation ease improved the product greatly.
Better than previous model.
Rooms were very clean and nicely decorated.
Rather small though.
Good rooms but a little small.
Rooms can be on the small side, but are nice, clean, and well maintained.
Good, clean and tidy rooms and bathroom.
Little small in size for a long stay but made up by a very friendly staff.
The rooms were small.
The rooms were clean.
The rooms are small but adequate and clean. 
Service is good.
Room services are expensive.
Rooms were clean but size was a problem. 
The room was comfortable, well lighted, and well maintained by housekeeping staff. 
The style, in the common areas as well, are bland. 
They appear to be renovating.
Room was well maintained and reasonable priced, though it was small as we expected. 
Everything was comfortable and in order.
Parking is very expensive.
However, valet staff are kind and helpful.
Parking is expensive.
Best to get free parking.
While the Best Western in San Francisco offers self and valet parking, either service is pricey and expensive.
Being in San Francisco, finding parking is an issue, so should you be visiting the city with your car, it is probably best to park it at the hotel.
the valet was often tardy or slow in bringing the driver his or her car.
The expensive price of parking is unacceptable and almost intolerable.
You have to let them park your car.
Parking has additional fees in the form of tax.
The speedometer is accurate and refreshes fast.
It will alert you when you go above the speed limit.
This new model will display the current speed limit on the screen.
Map and tracking speed is fast and convenient.
Maps include speed limits.
Fast navigation overall.
Map and tracking speed is fast and convenient.
Maps include speed limits.
Fast navigation overall.
Shows both speed limit and current speed.
Speed limit is not always accurate on non-major roads.
Indicates posted speed limits of the road you are on and your speed.
Speed of map updates is great.
The 2008 honda accord has an extremely uncomfortable drivers seat.
While it is nice to drive, expect back pain, especially on long trips.
The seats are not comfortable as many other cars in this segment.
Comfort is ok, but the front seats are too firm and can be uncomfortable after sitting in them for extended periods of time.
The front seats are uncomfortable.
The contour of the driver's seat is hard your back.
The driving position and the leather seats are pretty comfortable.
The overall interior is comfortable, stylish and spacious.
Back seat comfort and entry exit are great.
Acquires satellites very quickly.
Recalculates routes very quickly.
Time for acquiring satellites is short and quick.
Satellites track well and efficiently.
Connects to satellites extremely fast.
Reliable satellite connection.
Hotfix to lock on to satellite signals.
Acquiring satellites is very fast.
Recalculation time is excellent, as is the satellite signal connection.
Usually finds satellites very quickly.
Updates very quickly.
Free update map.
Awesome map update speed.
Updates and rerouting are much quicker than other GPS products.
Directions and maps are easy to use, and if you miss a turn, it updates your route in seconds.
The map updates are free for the first 60 days after registering.
The maps are fairly updated.
Speed of map updates is good.
There is a fee for using the update service.
battery-life is fantastic and good.
The 6 hours battery life is great.
Battery lasts about 5 hours.
Time is shorter when running many drives or using bright backlight.
Battery lasts about 5 hours.
Time is shorter when running many drives or using bright backlight.
The battery life is longer then 5 hours.
But due to the battery charger this may decrease or not work at all.
Battery lasts about 5 hours.
Time is shorter when running many drives or using bright backlight.
Overall, the service was poor.
The staff was not extremely friendly and hard to communicate with.
Good service, sometimes slow and not very friendly.
Service was not the best.
Staff could be impersonal and unfriendly.
Service can be friendly, but is impersonal and highly mediocre.
Size is small and manageable.
Perfect size and weight.
Great size for travel.
lightweight and portable, the smaller sized keyboard is easy to get used to.
The only problem here is that you won't get the same functionality you would with a full-sized laptop.
The keyboard is a decent size, a bit smaller then average but good.
The laptop itself is small but big enough do do things on it.
In spite of being small it is still comfortable.
The screen and keyboard are well sized for use.
The size is great and allows for excellent portability.
Makes it exceptionally easy to tote around, and the keyboard is fairly big considering the size of this netbook.
Overall, the food was good and reasonably priced.
The food service was good.
The presentation was awesome and the food is good.
Room service has good food quality, but it's fairly expensive.
Food was good quality.
Food was fresh and real.
Tasted excellent in most cases.
The food was very good, better than average.
I just loved the food, it was very fresh and hygenic.
Transmission is rough when shifting.
The transmission lacks power.
The transmission design has major problems and doesn't shift correctly.
Transmission is not as good as it was expected to be.
The transmission has some problems.
It can be rough and jerky.
The transmission is terrible.
It hesitates to shift and shifts at the wrong time.
The transmission can jerk unexpectedly.
The location was excellent, two blocks from many major points of interest.
The hotel is in a great location, close to Fisherman's Wharf, the Trolley and cable cars.
Good restaurants close by, too.
Hotel is located nicely in close proximity to Fishermans Wharf and main attractions in the area.
It has nice restaurants and rooms at reasonable price but rest rooms and bit of noise are the issues.
The Best Western in San Francisco is a decent, inexpensive option for one's stay in the city.
It's location is terrific, being near many attractions, and the rooms, while small, are clean.
It's location is terrific, being near many attractions.
The front seats are small, uncomfortable and not fully adjustable.
The back seats are large enough for three baby seats.
For those who like firm and hard seats, the 2008 Accord is comfortable.
Some people find them uncomfortable for a long drive.
Seats have smooth and comfortable fabric.
However, seats can be uncomfortable after a long period of time.
Seats too firm.
The front seats can be very uncomfortable, especially for long drives.
They are too firm.
The seats are adequately comfortable, but a little firm.
Good leg space in front and back seats.
Gas Mileage tends to be disappointing versus expectations.
Activation of variable cylinder management VCM system can improve mileage.
Gas mileage is good and effecient.
Mileage varies based on speed and road type.
The car gets extremely good gas mileage compared with the rest of the market, but is not as high as the