Synchronization of 30 80 Hz oscillatory activity of the principle neurons in the olfactory bulb is believed to be important for odor discrimination.
The increasing importance of non-coding RNA in biology and medicine has led to a growing interest in the problem of RNA 3-D structure prediction.
Observability of a dynamical system requires an understanding of its state the collective values of its variables.
Cytokines such as TNF and FASL can trigger death or survival depending on cell lines and cellular conditions.
Intrinsically disordered regions serve as molecular recognition elements, which play an important role in the control of many cellular processes and signaling pathways.
The rise of multi-drug resistant and extensively drug resistant tuberculosis around the world, including in industrialized nations, poses a great threat to human health and defines a need to develop new, effective and inexpensive anti-tubercular agents.
The proteome of the radiation- and desiccation-resistant bacterium D. radiodurans features a group of proteins that contain significant intrinsically disordered regions that are not present in non-extremophile homologues.
We perform a large-scale study of intrinsically disordered regions in proteins and protein complexes using a non-redundant set of hundreds of different protein complexes.
The idea of date and party hubs has been influential in the study of protein protein interaction networks.
The centrality-lethality rule, which notes that high-degree nodes in a protein interaction network tend to correspond to proteins that are essential, suggests that the topological prominence of a protein in a protein interaction network may be a good predictor of its biological importance.
The intrinsic, or mitochondrial, pathway of caspase activation is essential for apoptosis induction by various stimuli including cytotoxic stress.
The epidemic spread of infectious diseases is ubiquitous and often has a considerable impact on public health and economic wealth.
Recent improvements in technology have made DNA sequencing dramatically faster and more efficient than ever before.
Biophysically detailed models of single cells are difficult to fit to real data.
In eukaryotes, the interphase nucleus is organized in morphologically and/or functionally distinct nuclear compartments.
Sumoylation, the covalent attachment of SUMO to proteins, differs from other Ubl pathways.
In a 1997 seminal paper, W. Maddison proposed minimizing deep coalescences, or MDC, as an optimization criterion for inferring the species tree from a set of incongruent gene trees, assuming the incongruence is exclusively due to lineage sorting.
During embryonic development, the positional information provided by concentration gradients of maternal factors directs pattern formation by providing spatially dependent cues for gene expression.
The evolutionary dynamics of HIV during the chronic phase of infection is driven by the host immune response and by selective pressures exerted through drug treatment.
The relationship between Apolipoprotein E and the aggregation processes of the amyloid peptide has been shown to be crucial for Alzheimer's disease.
T-Cell antigen Receptor repertoire is generated through rearrangements of V and J genes encoding and chains.
ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, a key allosteric enzyme involved in higher plant starch biosynthesis, is composed of pairs of large and small subunits.
Acute effects of sex steroid hormones likely contribute to the observation that post-pubescent males have shorter QT intervals than females.
Simultaneous spike-counts of neural populations are typically modeled by a Gaussian distribution.
A current challenge is to develop computational approaches to infer gene network regulatory relationships based on multiple types of large-scale functional genomic data.
Hypoxia induces the expression of genes that alter metabolism through the hypoxia-inducible factor.
Macrophages are versatile immune cells that can detect a variety of pathogen-associated molecular patterns through their Toll-like receptors.
Transcription factor regulation is often post-translational.
Hsp90 is a molecular chaperone essential for protein folding and activation in normal homeostasis and stress response.
The use of computational modeling and simulation has increased in many biological fields, but despite their potential these techniques are only marginally applied in nutritional sciences.
Recently, a number of advanced screening technologies have allowed for the comprehensive quantification of aggravating and alleviating genetic interactions among gene pairs.
Progress in understanding the brain mechanisms underlying vision requires the construction of computational models that not only emulate the brain's anatomy and physiology, but ultimately match its performance on visual tasks.
The determination of factors that influence protein conformational changes is very important for the identification of potentially amyloidogenic and disordered regions in polypeptide chains.
Many large-scale studies on intrinsically disordered proteins are implicitly based on the structural models deposited in the Protein Data Bank.
Understanding the computations performed by neuronal circuits requires characterizing the strength and dynamics of the connections between individual neurons.
The goal of human genome re-sequencing is obtaining an accurate assembly of an individual's genome.
The scientific literature represents a rich source for retrieval of knowledge on associations between biomedical concepts such as genes, diseases and cellular processes.
The threshold firing frequency of a neuron is a characterizing feature of its dynamical behaviour, in turn determining its role in the oscillatory activity of the brain.
When incorporated into a polypeptide chain, proline differs from all other naturally occurring amino acid residues in two important respects.
Many behavioral phenomena have been found to spread interpersonally through social networks, in a manner similar to infectious diseases.
Extracting network-based functional relationships within genomic datasets is an important challenge in the computational analysis of large-scale data.
In prokaryotes, Shine Dalgarno sequences, nucleotides upstream from start codons on messenger RNAs that are complementary to ribosomal RNA, facilitate the initiation of protein synthesis.
The first efficacy trials named STEP of a T cell vaccine against HIV/AIDS began in 2004.
Spike timing is precise in the auditory system and it has been argued that it conveys information about auditory stimuli, in particular about the location of a sound source.
Calmodulin kinase II mediates critical signaling pathways responsible for divergent functions in the heart including calcium cycling, hypertrophy and apoptosis.
-Actinin is an actin crosslinking molecule that can serve as a scaffold and maintain dynamic actin filament networks.
Fluorescent proteins have been widely used as genetically encodable fusion tags for biological imaging.
Electroreceptive fish detect nearby objects by processing the information contained in the pattern of electric currents through the skin.
Molecular chaperones are essential elements of the protein quality control machinery that governs translocation and folding of nascent polypeptides, refolding and degradation of misfolded proteins, and activation of a wide range of client proteins.
Whole-genome transporter analyses have been conducted on 141 organisms whose complete genome sequences are available.
Contemporary theory of spiking neuronal networks is based on the linear response of the integrate-and-fire neuron model derived in the diffusion limit.
Prior experiences can influence future actions.
Recent advances in reconstruction and analytical methods for signaling networks have spurred the development of large-scale models that incorporate fully functional and biologically relevant features.
The development of systemic approaches in biology has put emphasis on identifying genetic modules whose behavior can be modeled accurately so as to gain insight into their structure and function.
The topology of cellular circuits is key to understand their robustness to both mutations and noise.
Selective attention is an important filter for complex environments where distractions compete with signals.
Periplasmic binding proteins are a large family of molecular transporters that play a key role in nutrient uptake and chemotaxis in Gram-negative bacteria.
Allosteric proteins bind an effector molecule at one site resulting in a functional change at a second site.
When introduced into a novel environment, mammals establish in it a preferred place marked by the highest number of visits and highest cumulative time spent in it.
There are currently a large number of orphan G-protein-coupled receptors whose endogenous ligands are unknown.
The extent to which self-adopted or intervention-related changes in behaviors affect the course of epidemics remains a key issue for outbreak control.
Cortico-basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits are severely disrupted by the dopamine depletion of Parkinson's disease, leading to pathologically exaggerated beta oscillations.
Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms and mutations is important for the discovery of genetic predisposition to complex diseases.
There is evidence that biological synapses have a limited number of discrete weight states.
Identification of pathways involved in the structural transitions of biomolecular systems is often complicated by the transient nature of the conformations visited across energy barriers and the multiplicity of paths accessible in the multidimensional energy landscape.
Certain theories suggest that it should be difficult or impossible to eradicate a vaccine-preventable disease under voluntary vaccination: Herd immunity implies that the individual incentive to vaccinate disappears at high coverage levels.
As modeling of changes in backbone conformation still lacks a computationally efficient solution, we developed a discretisation of the conformational states accessible to the protein backbone similar to the successful rotamer approach in side chains.
Conventional evolutionary game theory predicts that natural selection favours the selfish and strong even though cooperative interactions thrive at all levels of organization in living systems.
Various characteristics of complex gene regulatory networks have been discovered during the last decade, e.g., redundancy, exponential indegree distributions, scale-free outdegree distributions, mutational robustness, and evolvability.
Microarray comparative genomic hybridisation provides an estimate of the relative abundance of genomic DNA taken from comparator and reference organisms by hybridisation to a microarray containing probes that represent sequences from the reference organism.
A central challenge in computational modeling of biological systems is the determination of the model parameters.
The merging of network theory and microarray data analysis techniques has spawned a new field: gene coexpression network analysis.
Ryanodine receptors are ion channels that regulate muscle contraction by releasing calcium ions from intracellular stores into the cytoplasm.
This genome-scale study analysed the various parameters influencing protein levels in cells.
Position determination in biological systems is often achieved through protein concentration gradients.
De novo computational design of synthetic gene circuits that achieve well-defined target functions is a hard task.
Fundamental properties of phasic firing neurons are usually characterized in a noise-free condition.
Understanding of the intracellular molecular machinery that is responsible for the complex collective behavior of multicellular populations is an exigent problem of modern biology.
Animals with rudimentary innate abilities require substantial learning to transform those abilities into useful skills, where a skill can be considered as a set of sensory motor associations.
The identification and classification of genes and pseudogenes in duplicated regions still constitutes a challenge for standard automated genome annotation procedures.
Correlated changes of nucleic or amino acids have provided strong information about the structures and interactions of molecules.
Perception is fundamentally underconstrained because different combinations of object properties can generate the same sensory information.
The two main agents of human malaria, Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium falciparum, can induce severe anemia and provoke strong, complex immune reactions.
Drug molecules not only interact with specific targets, but also alter the state and function of the associated biological network.
Genome wide association studies, which test for association between common genetic markers and a disease phenotype, have shown varying degrees of success.
Co-expression networks are routinely used to study human diseases like obesity and diabetes.
Many protein functions can be directly linked to conformational changes.
Protein identification using mass spectrometry is an indispensable computational tool in the life sciences.
All materials enter or exit the cell nucleus through nuclear pore complexes, efficient transport devices that combine high selectivity and throughput.
Duplications of genes encoding highly connected and essential proteins are selected against in several species but not in human, where duplicated genes encode highly connected proteins.
Most cellular processes depend on intracellular locations and random collisions of individual protein molecules.
The extracellular matrix plays a critical role in orchestrating the events necessary for wound healing, muscle repair, morphogenesis, new blood vessel growth, and cancer invasion.
The tracing of potentially infectious contacts has become an important part of the control strategy for many infectious diseases, from early cases of novel infections to endemic sexually transmitted infections.
A central problem in the bioinformatics of gene regulation is to find the binding sites for regulatory proteins.
Human disease is heterogeneous, with similar disease phenotypes resulting from distinct combinations of genetic and environmental factors.
It is widely believed that the modular organization of cellular function is reflected in a modular structure of molecular networks.
While combinatorial models of transcriptional regulation can be inferred for metazoan systems from a priori biological knowledge, validation requires extensive and time-consuming experimental work.
The cerebral cortex is divided into many functionally distinct areas.
Knowledge of social contact patterns still represents the most critical step for understanding the spread of directly transmitted infections.
G-protein coupled receptors, the largest family of proteins in the human genome, are involved in many complex signal transduction pathways, typically activated by orthosteric ligand binding and subject to allosteric modulation.
In Arabidopsis, tandemly arrayed genes comprise 10 percent of the genes in the genome.
Alternative splicing and gene duplication both are processes that diversify the protein repertoire.
It is shown that existing processing schemes of 3D motion perception such as interocular velocity difference, changing disparity over time, as well as joint encoding of motion and disparity, do not offer a general solution to the inverse optics problem of local binocular 3D motion.
The discovery of small molecules targeted to specific oncogenic pathways has revolutionized anti-cancer therapy.
Biological function of proteins is frequently associated with the formation of complexes with small-molecule ligands.
Quasispecies are clouds of genotypes that appear in a population at mutation selection balance.
RNA molecules will tend to adopt a folded conformation through the pairing of bases on a single strand; the resulting so-called secondary structure is critical to the function of many types of RNA.
Gene regulatory networks consist of direct interactions but also include indirect interactions mediated by metabolites and signaling molecules.
Even in the post-genomic era, the identification of candidate genes within loci associated with human genetic diseases is a very demanding task, because the critical region may typically contain hundreds of positional candidates.
The role that mechanistic mathematical modeling and systems biology will play in molecular medicine and clinical development remains uncertain.
Neural networks consisting of globally coupled excitatory and inhibitory nonidentical neurons may exhibit a complex dynamic behavior including synchronization, multiclustered solutions in phase space, and oscillator death.
We uncovered the underlying energy landscape for a cellular network.
Spectro-temporal receptive fields have been widely used as linear approximations to the signal transform from sound spectrograms to neural responses along the auditory pathway.
Combination therapies are often needed for effective clinical outcomes in the management of complex diseases, but presently they are generally based on empirical clinical experience.
Understanding the mechanisms of cell function and drug action is a major endeavor in the pharmaceutical industry.
One of the major goals of structural genomics projects is to determine the three-dimensional structure of representative members of as many different fold families as possible.
Natural proteins often partake in several highly specific protein-protein interactions.
An increasing number of cis-regulatory RNA elements have been found to regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally in various biological processes in bacterial systems.
The mechanism for cortical folding pattern formation is not fully understood.
The On-Off direction-selective ganglion cell in mammalian retinas responds most strongly to a stimulus moving in a specific direction.
Finding functional DNA binding sites of transcription factors throughout the genome is a crucial step in understanding transcriptional regulation.
Trp-cage is a designed 20-residue polypeptide that, in spite of its size, shares several features with larger globular proteins.
Angiogenesis plays a crucial role in a variety of physiological and pathological conditions including cancer, cardiovascular disease, and wound healing.
Members of the vascular endothelial growth factor family of proteins are critical regulators of angiogenesis.
microRNAs are important post-transcriptional regulators, but the extent of this regulation is uncertain, both with regard to the number of miRNA genes and their targets.
It has become clear that a large proportion of functional DNA in the human genome does not code for protein.
Compelling behavioral evidence suggests that humans can make optimal decisions despite the uncertainty inherent in perceptual or motor tasks.
Bacterial species, and even strains within species, can vary greatly in their gene contents and metabolic capabilities.
Protein function is mediated by different amino acid residues, both their positions and types, in a protein sequence.
Fly lobula plate tangential cells are known to perform wide-field motion integration.
The primary visual cortex is pre-wired to facilitate the extraction of behaviorally important visual features.
Noncoding RNAs are important functional RNAs that do not code for proteins.
Cellular signaling networks are subject to transcriptional and proteolytic regulation under both physiological and pathological conditions.
Previous modeling studies have identified the vaccination coverage level necessary for preventing influenza epidemics, but have not shown whether this critical coverage can be reached.
Accurate modelling of biological systems requires a deeper and more complete knowledge about the molecular components and their functional associations than we currently have.
Ample evidence has accumulated for the evolutionary importance of duplication events.
Phylogenetic profiling is based on the hypothesis that during evolution functionally or physically interacting genes are likely to be inherited or eliminated in a codependent manner.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells display complex intrinsic dynamics.
Halobacterium salinarum is a bioenergetically flexible, halophilic microorganism that can generate energy by respiration, photosynthesis, and the fermentation of arginine.
G-quadruplex DNA is a four-stranded DNA structure formed by non-Watson-Crick base pairing between stacked sets of four guanines.
Persistent activity states, observed in several neocortical areas after the removal of a sensory stimulus, are believed to be the neuronal basis of working memory.
Membrane fusion is critical to biological processes such as viral infection, endocrine hormone secretion, and neurotransmission, yet the precise mechanistic details of the fusion process remain unknown.
Advances in the computational identification of functional noncoding polymorphisms will aid in cataloging novel determinants of health and identifying genetic variants that explain human evolution.
Understanding complex networks of protein-protein interactions is one of the foremost challenges of the post-genomic era.
Numerous studies are currently underway to characterize the microbial communities inhabiting our world.
G protein coupled receptors, encoded by about 5 percent of human genes, comprise the largest family of integral membrane proteins and act as cell surface receptors responsible for the transduction of endogenous signal into a cellular response.
Accumulating infections of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans underlines the need to track the ability of these viruses to spread among humans.
Large-scale protein interaction networks have typically been discerned using affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry and yeast two-hybrid techniques.
While many models of biological object recognition share a common set of broad-stroke properties, the performance of any one model depends strongly on the choice of parameters in a particular instantiation of that model e.g., the number of units per layer, the size of pooling kernels, exponents in normalization operations, etc. Since the number of such parameters is typically large and the computational cost of evaluating one particular parameter set is high, the space of possible model instantiations goes largely unexplored.
It is well established that various cortical regions can implement a wide array of neural processes, yet the mechanisms which integrate these processes into behavior-producing, brain-scale activity remain elusive.
Activity in neural circuits is spatiotemporally organized.
Yeast successfully adapts to an environmental stress by altering physiology and fine-tuning metabolism.
As a key factor in endemic and epidemic dynamics, the geographical distribution of viruses has been frequently interpreted in the light of their genetic histories.
In bacterial genomes composed of more than one chromosome, one replicon is typically larger, harbors more essential genes than the others, and is considered primary.
We construct a model to study tradeoffs associated with aging in the adaptive immune system, focusing on cumulative effects of replacing naive cells with memory cells.
Critical to our many daily choices between larger delayed rewards, and smaller more immediate rewards, are the shape and the steepness of the function that discounts rewards with time.
Cell polarity is a general cellular process that can be seen in various cell types such as migrating neutrophils and Dictyostelium cells.
To maintain a stable intracellular environment, cells utilize complex and specialized defense systems against a variety of external perturbations, such as electrophilic stress, heat shock, and hypoxia, etc. Irrespective of the type of stress, many adaptive mechanisms contributing to cellular homeostasis appear to operate through gene regulatory networks that are organized into negative feedback loops.
Autoregulation of transcription factors and cross-antagonism between lineage-specific transcription factors are a recurrent theme in cell differentiation.
When coordinating movements, the nervous system often has to decide how to distribute work across a number of redundant effectors.
It has become clear that noncoding RNAs play important roles in cells, and emerging studies indicate that there might be a large number of unknown ncRNAs in mammalian genomes.
Protein point mutations are an essential component of the evolutionary and experimental analysis of protein structure and function.
Retroviral insertional mutagenesis screens, which identify genes involved in tumor development in mice, have yielded a substantial number of retroviral integration sites, and this number is expected to grow substantially due to the introduction of high-throughput screening techniques.
Some studies suggest that complex arm movements in humans and monkeys may optimize several objective functions, while others claim that arm movements satisfy geometric constraints and are composed of elementary components.
Lightness illusions are fundamental to human perception, and yet why we see them is still the focus of much research.
Functional brain networks detected in task-free functional magnetic resonance imaging have a small-world architecture that reflects a robust functional organization of the brain.
The mechanisms of stress tolerance in sessile animals, such as molluscs, can offer fundamental insights into the adaptation of organisms for a wide range of environmental challenges.
We study the evolution of cooperation under indirect reciprocity, believed to constitute the biological basis of morality.
The conversion from soluble states into cross- fibrillar aggregates is a property shared by many different proteins and peptides and was hence conjectured to be a generic feature of polypeptide chains.
What proteins interacted in a long-extinct ancestor of yeast?
Many alternative splicing events are regulated by pentameric and hexameric intronic sequences that serve as binding sites for splicing regulatory factors.
Amplification, deletion, and loss of heterozygosity of genomic DNA are hallmarks of cancer.
Mitochondria are eukaryotic organelles that originated from the endosymbiosis of an alpha-proteobacterium.
One selection pressure shaping sequence evolution is the requirement that a protein fold with sufficient stability to perform its biological functions.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus is a multicellular system that drives daily rhythms in mammalian behavior and physiology.
Apparent occupancy levels of proteins bound to DNA in vivo can now be routinely measured on a genomic scale.
Many pathogens exist in phenotypically distinct strains that interact with each other through competition for hosts.
The exact lengths of linker DNAs connecting adjacent nucleosomes specify the intrinsic three-dimensional structures of eukaryotic chromatin fibers.
Accumulated experimental observations demonstrate that protein stability is often preserved upon conservative point mutation.
In recent times, stochastic treatments of gene regulatory processes have appeared in the literature in which a cell exposed to a signaling molecule in its environment triggers the synthesis of a specific protein through a network of intracellular reactions.
Protein folding dynamics is often described as diffusion on a free energy surface considered as a function of one or few reaction coordinates.
The paradigm of biological membranes has recently gone through a major update.
Comparison of elastic network model predictions with experimental data has provided important insights on the dominant role of the network of inter-residue contacts in defining the global dynamics of proteins.
Protein loops, the flexible short segments connecting two stable secondary structural units in proteins, play a critical role in protein structure and function.
Protein interactions play a vital part in the function of a cell.
A transcriptional regulatory network constitutes the collection of regulatory rules that link environmental cues to the transcription state of a cell's genome.
Evolution is shaping the world around us.
Competence is a transiently differentiated state that certain bacterial cells reach when faced with a stressful environment.
Kinetically stable proteins, those whose stability is derived from their slow unfolding kinetics and not thermodynamics, are examples of evolution's best attempts at suppressing unfolding.
Hidden Markov models have been successfully applied to the tasks of transmembrane protein topology prediction and signal peptide prediction.
In muscle, force emerges from myosin binding with actin.
Five independent groups have reported microarray studies that identify dozens of rhythmically expressed genes in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster.
We used a multi-round, two-party exchange game in which a healthy subject played a subject diagnosed with a DSM-IV disorder, and applied a Bayesian clustering approach to the behavior exhibited by the healthy subject.
Productive cell migration requires the spatiotemporal coordination of cell adhesion, membrane protrusion, and actomyosin-mediated contraction.
In many biological systems, the interactions that describe the coupling between different units in a genetic network are nonlinear and stochastic.
An important element of the developing field of proteomics is to understand protein-protein interactions and other functional links amongst genes.
Yeast two-hybrid screens are an important method for mapping pairwise physical interactions between proteins.
Computational methods attempting to identify instances of cis-regulatory modules in the genome face a challenging problem of searching for potentially interacting transcription factor binding sites while knowledge of the specific interactions involved remains limited.
A neural field model is presented that captures the essential non-linear characteristics of activity dynamics across several millimeters of visual cortex in response to local flashed and moving stimuli.
Changes in the synaptic connection strengths between neurons are believed to play a role in memory formation.
Dendrite morphology, a neuron's anatomical fingerprint, is a neuroscientist's asset in unveiling organizational principles in the brain.
Much of the complexity of biochemical networks comes from the information-processing abilities of allosteric proteins, be they receptors, ion-channels, signalling molecules or transcription factors.
Understanding the principles governing axonal and dendritic branching is essential for unravelling the functionality of single neurons and the way in which they connect.
Protegrin peptides are potent antimicrobial agents believed to act against a variety of pathogens by forming nonselective transmembrane pores in the bacterial cell membrane.
Male Rocky Mountain elk produce loud and high fundamental frequency bugles during the mating season, in contrast to the male European Red Deer who produces loud and low fundamental frequency roaring calls.
We have developed a software program that weights and integrates specific properties on the genes in a pathogen so that they may be ranked as drug targets.
Combinatorial regulation of gene expression is ubiquitous in eukaryotes with multiple inputs converging on regulatory control elements.
Experimental work has shown that T cells of the immune system rapidly and specifically respond to antigenic molecules presented on the surface of antigen-presenting-cells and are able to discriminate between potential stimuli based on the kinetic parameters of the T cell receptor-antigen bond.
Computational efforts to identify functional elements within genomes leverage comparative sequence information by looking for regions that exhibit evidence of selective constraint.
Rates of hospital-acquired infections, such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, are increasingly used as quality indicators for hospital hygiene.
A prevailing theory proposes that the brain's two visual pathways, the ventral and dorsal, lead to differing visual processing and world representations for conscious perception than those for action.
Many important protein protein interactions are mediated by the binding of a short peptide stretch in one protein to a large globular segment in another.
When movement outcome differs consistently from the intended movement, errors are used to correct subsequent movements by updating an internal model of motor and/or sensory systems.
Knowledge of the Free Energy Landscape topology is the essential key to understanding many biochemical processes.
The process of assigning a finite set of tags or labels to a collection of observations, subject to side conditions, is notable for its computational complexity.
Transitive inference, class inclusion and a variety of other inferential abilities have strikingly similar developmental profiles all are acquired around the age of five.
Alpha-helical transmembrane proteins constitute roughly 30 percent of a typical genome and are involved in a wide variety of important biological processes including cell signalling, transport of membrane-impermeable molecules and cell recognition.
T cell populations are regulated both by signals specific to the T-cell receptor and by signals and resources, such as cytokines and space, that act independently of TCR specificity.
The bacterial flagellar motor is a highly efficient rotary machine used by many bacteria to propel themselves.
An important step in understanding gene regulation is to identify the DNA binding sites recognized by each transcription factor.
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells is initiated by a gradual loss of pluripotency-associated transcripts and induction of differentiation genes.
Metagenomics is a discipline that enables the genomic study of uncultured microorganisms.
A new monotonicity-constrained maximum likelihood approach, called Partial Order Optimum Likelihood, is presented and applied to the problem of functional site prediction in protein 3D structures, an important current challenge in genomics.
One of the most critical problems we face in the study of biological systems is building accurate statistical descriptions of them.
Structural and functional studies of the ABL and EGFR kinase domains have recently suggested a common mechanism of activation by cancer-causing mutations.
In eukaryotic cells, the internalization of extracellular cargo via the endocytic machinery is an important regulatory process required for many essential cellular functions.
The calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II plays a key role in the induction of long-term postsynaptic modifications following calcium entry.
A cornerstone of biotechnology is the use of microorganisms for the efficient production of chemicals and the elimination of harmful waste.
Massive amounts of data are being generated in an effort to represent for the brain the expression of all genes at cellular resolution.
Network analysis transcends conventional pairwise approaches to data analysis as the context of components in a network graph can be taken into account.
In the presence of exogenous mortality risks, future reproduction by an individual is worth less than present reproduction to its fitness.
We present molecular dynamics simulations of unliganded human hemoglobin A under physiological conditions, starting from the R, R2, and T state.
Atherosclerosis is the main cause of coronary heart disease and stroke, the two major causes of death in developed society.
Risk maps estimating the spatial distribution of infectious diseases are required to guide public health policy from local to global scales.
One of the striking features of evolution is the appearance of novel structures in organisms.
Simian Virus 40 Large Tumor Antigen is an efficient helicase motor that unwinds and translocates DNA.
Genes with common functions often exhibit correlated expression levels, which can be used to identify sets of interacting genes from microarray data.
Many proteins, especially in eukaryotes, contain tandem repeats of several domains from the same family.
We describe comparative patch analysis for modeling the structures of multidomain proteins and protein complexes, and apply it to the PSD-95 protein.
Long after a new language has been learned and forgotten, relearning a few words seems to trigger the recall of other words.
Nucleoside analogs used in antiretroviral treatment have been associated with mitochondrial toxicity.
The acquisition and analysis of datasets including multi-level omics and physiology from non-model species, sampled from field populations, is a formidable challenge, which so far has prevented the application of systems biology approaches.
In 50 percent of progressing HIV-1 patients, CXCR4-tropic virus emerges late in infection, often overtaking CCR5-tropic virus as the dominant viral strain.
The claim that genetic properties of neurons significantly influence their synaptic network structure is a common notion in neuroscience.
Cells in the wing blade of Drosophila melanogaster exhibit an in-plane polarization causing distal orientation of hairs.
A new method is presented for extraction of population firing-rate models for both thalamocortical and intracortical signal transfer based on stimulus-evoked data from simultaneous thalamic single-electrode and cortical recordings using linear multielectrodes in the rat barrel system.
Previous model-based analysis of the metabolic network of Geobacter sulfurreducens suggested the existence of several redundant pathways.
The convoluted cortex of primates is instantly recognizable in its principal morphologic features, yet puzzling in its complex finer structure.
Pitch is one of the most important features of natural sounds, underlying the perception of melody in music and prosody in speech.
The transcription factor Myc plays a central role in regulating cell-fate decisions, including proliferation, growth, and apoptosis.
Many neurons have epochs in which they fire action potentials in an approximately periodic fashion.
Cells of the embryonic vertebrate limb in high-density culture undergo chondrogenic pattern formation, which results in the production of regularly spaced islands of cartilage similar to the cartilage primordia of the developing limb skeleton.
Metabolic rate, heart rate, lifespan, and many other physiological properties vary with body mass in systematic and interrelated ways.
Mechanical force plays an important role in the physiology of eukaryotic cells whose dominant structural constituent is the actin cytoskeleton composed mainly of actin and actin crosslinking proteins.
Most mammalian genes are able to express several splice variants in a phenomenon known as alternative splicing.
Integrative approaches to studying the coupled dynamics of skeletal muscles with their loads while under neural control have focused largely on questions pertaining to the postural and dynamical stability of animals and humans.
Circadian rhythm is fundamental in regulating a wide range of cellular, metabolic, physiological, and behavioral activities in mammals.
Representing and analyzing complex networks remains a roadblock to creating dynamic network models of biological processes and pathways.
Patterns of spontaneous activity in the developing retina, LGN, and cortex are necessary for the proper development of visual cortex.
Deleterious mutations are considered a major impediment to adaptation, and there are straightforward expectations for the rate at which they accumulate as a function of population size and mutation rate.
Signal output from receptor G-protein effector modules is a dynamic function of the nucleotide exchange activity of the receptor, the GTPase-accelerating activity of GTPase-activating proteins, and their interactions.
Circulation is an important delivery method for both natural and synthetic molecules, but microenvironment interactions, regulated by endothelial cells and critical to the molecule's fate, are difficult to interpret using traditional approaches.
N-Acetyl-L-Glutamate Kinase is the structural paradigm for examining the catalytic mechanisms and dynamics of amino acid kinase family members.
Chelt, a cholera-like toxin from Vibrio cholerae, and Certhrax, an anthrax-like toxin from Bacillus cereus, are among six new bacterial protein toxins we identified and characterized using in silico and cell-based techniques.
Individual perception of vaccine safety is an important factor in determining a person's adherence to a vaccination program and its consequences for disease control.
Catalysis of ADP-ATP exchange by nucleotide exchange factors is central to the activity of Hsp70 molecular chaperones.
A longstanding question in molecular biology is the extent to which the behavior of macromolecules observed in vitro accurately reflects their behavior in vivo.
Both the excitability of a neuron's membrane, driven by active ion channels, and dendritic morphology contribute to neuronal firing dynamics, but the relative importance and interactions between these features remain poorly understood.
Numerous studies have noted that the evolution of new enzymatic specificities is accompanied by loss of the protein's thermodynamic stability, thus suggesting a tradeoff between the acquisition of new enzymatic functions and stability.
We have developed a multi-scale biophysical electromechanics model of the rat left ventricle at room temperature.
The classic algorithms of Needleman Wunsch and Smith Waterman find a maximum a posteriori probability alignment for a pair hidden Markov model.
Paired-end sequencing is emerging as a key technique for assessing genome rearrangements and structural variation on a genome-wide scale.
Text-mining algorithms make mistakes in extracting facts from natural-language texts.
We study how functional constraints bound and shape evolution through an analysis of mammalian voltage-gated sodium channels.
The diversity of virus populations within single infected hosts presents a major difficulty for the natural immune response as well as for vaccine design and antiviral drug therapy.
Advances in time-lapse fluorescence microscopy have enabled us to directly observe dynamic cellular phenomena.
Exposure to environmental chemicals and drugs may have a negative effect on human health.
The evolution of cooperation described in terms of simple two-person interactions has received considerable attention in recent years, where several key results were obtained.
The AraC family transcription factor MarA activates 40 genes of the Escherichia coli chromosome resulting in different levels of resistance to a wide array of antibiotics and to superoxides.
The cellular response elicited by an environmental cue typically varies with the strength of the stimulus.
Spike timing dependent plasticity is a learning rule that modifies synaptic strength as a function of the relative timing of pre- and postsynaptic spikes.
Pavlovian predictions of future aversive outcomes lead to behavioral inhibition, suppression, and withdrawal.
Proteins are active, flexible machines that perform a range of different functions.
Perception involves two types of decisions about the sensory world: identification of stimulus features as analog quantities, or discrimination of the same stimulus features among a set of discrete alternatives.
Transcriptional regulators recognize specific DNA sequences.
The mature human brain is organized into a collection of specialized functional networks that flexibly interact to support various cognitive functions.
The major DNA constituent of primate centromeres is alpha satellite DNA.
Acetylcholinesterase rapidly hydrolyzes acetylcholine in the neuromuscular junctions and other cholinergic synapses to terminate the neuronal signal.
Non-intermingling, adjacent populations of cells define compartment boundaries; such boundaries are often essential for the positioning and the maintenance of tissue-organizers during growth.
A fundamental problem in neuroscience is understanding how working memory the ability to store information at intermediate timescales, like tens of seconds is implemented in realistic neuronal networks.
Early identification of adverse effect of preclinical and commercial drugs is crucial in developing highly efficient therapeutics, since unexpected adverse drug effects account for one-third of all drug failures in drug development.
Our investigation of knotted structures in the Protein Data Bank reveals the most complicated knot discovered to date.
Influenza can be transmitted through respirable, inspirable, direct-droplet-spray, and contact modes.
Many cellular systems rely on the ability to interpret spatial heterogeneities in chemoattractant concentration to direct cell migration.
Transposable elements are mobile, repetitive sequences that make up significant fractions of metazoan genomes.
Trans/cis prolyl isomerisation is involved in several biological processes, including the development of numerous diseases.
In this paper we used a general stochastic processes framework to derive from first principles the incidence rate function that characterizes epidemic models.
Predicting protein function from structure remains an active area of interest, particularly for the structural genomics initiatives where a substantial number of structures are initially solved with little or no functional characterisation.
We present a new approach to the handling and interrogating of large flow cytometry data where cell status and function can be described, at the population level, by global descriptors such as distribution mean or co-efficient of variation experimental data.
Computational methods for discovery of sequence elements that are enriched in a target set compared with a background set are fundamental in molecular biology research.
We present a streaming model for large-scale classification (in the context of  SYMBOL -SVM)  by leveraging connections between learning and computational geometry
In this paper, we present two classes of Bayesian approaches to the two-sample problem
We study the regret of optimal strategies for online convex optimization games
Many databases store data in relational format, with different types of entities and information about links between the entities
Collecting large labeled data sets is a laborious and expensive task, whose scaling up requires division of the labeling workload between many teachers
Reinforcement learning means learning a policy---a mapping of observations into actions---based on feedback from the environment
{dimension reduction; kernel methods; low-rank approximation; machine learning; Nystr\"om extension}% In recent years, the spectral analysis of appropriately defined kernel matrices has emerged as a principled way to extract the low-dimensional structure often prevalent in high-dimensional data
% The problem is sequence prediction in the following setting
The paper proposes a new message passing algorithm for cycle-free factor graphs
We develop a new collaborative filtering (CF) method that combines both previously known users' preferences, ie standard CF, as well as product/user attributes, ie classical function approximation, to predict a given user's interest in a particular product
We show that learning a convex body in  SYMBOL , given random samples from the body, requires  SYMBOL  samples
We present an algorithm, called the  SYMBOL , for learning to make decisions in situations where the payoff of only one choice is observed, rather than all choices
Suppose the signal  SYMBOL  is realized by driving a  SYMBOL -sparse signal  SYMBOL  through an arbitrary unknown stable discrete-linear time invariant system  SYMBOL , namely,  SYMBOL , where  SYMBOL  is the impulse response of the operator  SYMBOL
We study the tracking problem, namely, estimating the hidden state of an object over time, from unreliable and noisy measurements
One of the most popular algorithms for clustering in Euclidean space is the  SYMBOL -means algorithm;  SYMBOL -means is difficult to analyze mathematically, and few theoretical guarantees are known about it, particularly when the data is  well-clustered
Higher-order tensor decompositions are analogous to the familiar Singular Value Decomposition (SVD), but they transcend the limitations of matrices (second-order tensors)
As a fundamental problem in pattern recognition, graph matching has applications in a variety of fields, from computer vision to computational biology
We consider the problem of high-dimensional non-linear variable selection for supervised learning
For a classification problem described by the joint density  SYMBOL , models of  SYMBOL  (the ``Bayesian similarity measure'') have been shown to be an optimal similarity measure for nearest neighbor classification
In recent years, spectral clustering has become one of the most popular modern clustering algorithms
Engine assembly is a complex and heavily automated distributed-control process, with large amounts of faults data logged everyday
We identify the classical Perceptron algorithm with margin as a member of a broader family of large margin classifiers  which we collectively call the Margitron
This paper generalizes the traditional statistical concept of prediction intervals for arbitrary probability density functions in high-dimen\-sional feature spaces by introducing significance level distributions, which provides interval-independent probabilities for continuous random variables
We address the problem of reinforcement learning in which observations may exhibit an arbitrary form of stochastic dependence on past observations and actions
Motivated by the philosophy and phenomenal success of compressed sensing, the problem of reconstructing a matrix from a sampling of its entries has attracted much attention recently
Recent advances in machine learning make it possible to design efficient prediction algorithms for data sets with huge numbers of parameters
Scenarios for the emergence or bootstrap of a lexicon involve the repeated interaction between at least two agents  who must reach a consensus on how to name  SYMBOL  objects using   SYMBOL  words
This correspondence studies an estimator of the conditional  support of a distribution underlying a set of  iid 
In this contribution, we propose a generic online (also sometimes called adaptive or recursive) version of the Expectation-Maximisation (EM) algorithm applicable to latent variable models of independent observations
Given  SYMBOL  points in a  SYMBOL  dimensional Euclidean space, the Minimum Enclosing Ball (MEB) problem is to find the ball with the smallest radius which contains all  SYMBOL  points
Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) are one of the most fundamental and widely used statistical tools for modeling discrete time series
Previous studies on multi-instance learning typically treated instances in the  bags  as  independently and identically distributed
Given a time series of multicomponent measurements  SYMBOL , the usual objective of nonlinear blind source separation (BSS) is to find a ``source" time series  SYMBOL , comprised of statistically independent combinations of the measured components
We prove that the optimal assignment kernel, proposed recently as an attempt to embed labeled graphs and more generally tuples of basic data to a Hilbert space, is in fact not always positive definite
Images can be segmented by first using a classifier to predict an affinity graph that reflects the degree to which image pixels must be grouped together and then partitioning the graph to yield a segmentation
We propose and analyze a new vantage point for the learning of mixtures of Gaussians: namely, the PAC-style model of learning probability distributions introduced by Kearns~et~al ~ CITATION
We show how rate-distortion theory provides a mechanism for automated theory building by naturally distinguishing between regularity and randomness
We consider the problem of reconstructing a low rank  matrix from a small subset of its entries
%   <- trailing '%' for backward compatibility of
In a multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem, an online algorithm makes a sequence of choices
We consider the problem of joint universal variable-rate lossy coding and identification for parametric classes of stationary  SYMBOL -mixing sources with general (Polish) alphabets
We consider an agent interacting with an unmodeled environment
For supervised and unsupervised learning, positive definite kernels allow to use large and potentially infinite dimensional feature spaces with a computational cost that only depends on the number of observations
In many real world applications, data cannot be accurately represented by vectors
We define a novel, basic, unsupervised learning problem - learning the lowest density homogeneous hyperplane separator of an unknown probability distribution
We report a new optimal resolution for the statistical stratification problem under proportional sampling allocation among strata
Most of the non-asymptotic theoretical work in regression is carried out for the square loss, where estimators can be obtained through closed-form expressions
Minimizing the rank of a matrix subject to affine constraints is a fundamental problem with many important applications in machine learning and statistics
An approach to the acceleration of parametric weak classifier boosting is proposed
Solomonoff completed the Bayesian framework by providing a rigorous, unique, formal, and universal choice for the model class and the prior
In this paper, we propose a spreading activation approach for collaborative filtering (SA-CF)
A standard approach in pattern classification is to estimate the distributions of the label classes, and then to apply the Bayes classifier to the estimates of the distributions in order to classify unlabeled examples
%   <- trailing '%' for backward compatibility of
We introduce a new protocol for prediction with expert advice in which each expert evaluates the learner's and his own performance using a loss function that may change over time and may be different from the loss functions used by the other experts
This work is motivated by the necessity to automate the discovery of structure in vast and ever-growing collection of relational data commonly represented as graphs, for example genomic networks
% We consider the problem of estimating the parameters of a Gaussian or binary distribution in such a way that the resulting undirected graphical model is sparse
Given a finite set of words  SYMBOL  independently drawn according to a fixed unknown distribution law  SYMBOL  called a  stochastic language , an usual goal in Grammatical Inference is to infer an estimate of  SYMBOL  in some class of probabilistic models, such as  Probabilistic Automata  (PA)
The versatility of exponential families, along with their attendant convexity properties, make them a popular and effective statistical model
We bound the future loss when predicting any (computably) stochastic sequence online
This paper uncovers and explores the close relationship between Monte Carlo Optimization of a parametrized integral (MCO), Parametric machine-Learning (PL), and `blackbox' or `oracle'-based optimization (BO)
% After building a classifier with modern tools of machine learning we typically have a black box at hand that is able to predict well for unseen data
We develop the concept of  ABC -Boost ( A daptive  B ase  C lass Boost) for  multi-class classification and  present   ABC -MART, a concrete implementation of  ABC -Boost
In data analysis new forms of complex data have to be considered like for example (symbolic data, functional data, web data, trees, SQL query and multimedia data,
The Baum-Welch algorithm together with its derivatives and
KNN is one of the most popular classification methods, but it often fails to work well with inappropriate choice of distance metric or due to the presence of numerous class-irrelevant features
In this paper we propose an algorithm for polynomial-time reinforcement learning in factored Markov decision processes (FMDPs)
We propose simple randomized strategies for sequential decision (or prediction) under imperfect monitoring, that is, when the decision maker (forecaster) does not have access to the past outcomes but rather to a feedback signal
The on-line shortest path problem is considered under various models of partial monitoring
In many fields where human understanding plays a crucial role, such as bioprocesses, the capacity of extracting knowledge from data is of critical importance
Ensemble learning aims to improve generalization ability by using multiple base learners
In this paper, spectrum access in cognitive radio networks is modeled as a repeated auction game subject to monitoring and entry costs
In this paper we propose a novel algorithm, factored value iteration (FVI), for the approximate solution of factored Markov decision processes (fMDPs)
We present \bayesum\ (for ``Bayesian summarization''), a model for sentence extraction in query-focused summarization \bayesum\ leverages the common case in which multiple documents are relevant to a single query
Solomonoff's central result on induction is that the prediction of a universal semimeasure  SYMBOL  converges rapidly and with probability 1 to the true sequence generating predictor  SYMBOL , if the latter is computable
We derive an exact and efficient Bayesian regression algorithm for piecewise constant functions of unknown segment number, boundary location, and levels
In this paper we propose a method that learns to play Pac-Man
Lasso, or  SYMBOL  regularized least squares, has been explored extensively for its remarkable sparsity properties
Detecting outliers which are grossly different from or inconsistent with the remaining dataset is a major challenge in real-world KDD applications
We consider the least-square regression problem with regularization by a block  SYMBOL -norm, ie , a sum of  Euclidean norms over spaces of dimensions larger than one
General-purpose, intelligent, learning agents cycle through sequences of observations, actions, and rewards that are complex, uncertain, unknown, and non-Markovian
We learn multiple hypotheses for related tasks under a latent hierarchical relationship between tasks
We consider multi-label prediction problems with large output spaces under the assumption of  output sparsity  -- that the target (label) vectors have small support
In the context of inference with expectation constraints, we propose an approach based on the ``loopy belief propagation'' algorithm (\textsc{lpb}), as a surrogate to an exact Markov Random Field (\textsc{mrf}) modelling
We describe an adaptation and application of a search-based structured prediction algorithm ``\searn'' to unsupervised learning problems
The repeatability and efficiency of a corner detector determines how likely it is to be useful in a real-world application
Max-product belief propagation is a local, iterative algorithm to find the mode/MAP estimate of a probability distribution
Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) constitute a popular and efficient approach for supervised sequence labelling
We consider the task of learning a classifier from the feature space  SYMBOL  to the set of classes  SYMBOL , when the features can be partitioned into class-conditionally independent feature sets  SYMBOL  and  SYMBOL
This paper focuses on the problem of kernelizing an existing supervised Mahalanobis distance learner
The emergence of low-cost sensor architectures for diverse modalities has made it possible to deploy sensor arrays that capture a single event from a large number of vantage points and using multiple modalities
In this paper, we study the application of sparse principal component analysis (PCA) to clustering and feature selection problems
Quantum classification is defined as the task of predicting the associated class of an unknown quantum state drawn from an ensemble of pure states given a finite number of copies of this state
Canonical correlation analysis is a technique to extract common features from a pair of multivariate data
A dictionary defines words in terms of other words
This paper describes an efficient reduction of the learning problem of ranking to binary classification
Frequent episode discovery is a popular framework for pattern discovery in event streams
We prove existence and uniqueness of the minimizer for the average geodesic distance to the points of a geodesically convex set on the sphere
% We show that the Brier game of prediction is mixable and find the optimal learning rate and substitution function for it
This paper addresses the problem of distributed learning under communication constraints, motivated by distributed signal processing in wireless sensor networks and data mining with distributed databases
This paper addresses the general problem of domain adaptation which arises in a variety of applications where the distribution of the labeled sample available somewhat differs from that of the test data
%
This paper presents a theoretical analysis of sample selection bias correction
We introduce a framework for filtering features that employs the Hilbert-Schmidt Independence Criterion (HSIC) as a measure of dependence between the features and the labels
In this paper, we are interested in optimal decisions in a partially observable universe
Gaussian belief propagation (GaBP) is an iterative message-passing algorithm for inference in Gaussian graphical models
Prediction is a complex notion, and different predictors (such as people, computer programs, and probabilistic theories) can pursue very different goals
This article treats the problem of learning a dictionary providing sparse representations for a given signal class, via  SYMBOL -minimisation
Let  SYMBOL  be an  SYMBOL  matrix of rank  SYMBOL ,  and assume that a uniformly random subset  SYMBOL   of its entries is observed
Point clouds are sets of points in two or three dimensions
We give a characterization of Maximum Entropy/Minimum Relative Entropy inference by providing two `strong entropy concentration' theorems
Consider an agent interacting with an environment in cycles
Boosting is of great interest recently in the machine learning community because  of the impressive performance for classification and regression problems
Support vector machines (SVMs) are an extremely successful type of classification and regression algorithms
Observations consisting of measurements on relationships for pairs of objects arise in many settings, such as protein interaction and gene regulatory networks, collections of author-recipient email, and social networks
Experimental verification has been the method of choice for verifying the stability of a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) algorithm as the number of agents grows and theoretical analysis becomes prohibitively complex
In this paper, we show a connection between a certain online low-congestion routing problem and an online prediction of graph labeling
We show how models for prediction with expert advice can be defined concisely and clearly using hidden Markov models (HMMs); standard HMM algorithms can then be used to efficiently calculate, among other things, how the expert predictions should be weighted according to the model
In this paper we adapt online estimation strategies to perform
Sequential decision theory formally solves the problem of rational agents in uncertain worlds if the true environmental prior probability distribution is known
Fitness functions based on test cases are very common in Genetic Programming (GP)
Recently, different works proposed a new way to mine patterns in databases with pathological size
The problem of classifying sonar signals from rocks and mines first studied by Gorman and Sejnowski has become a benchmark against which many learning algorithms have been tested
A client-server architecture to simultaneously solve multiple learning tasks from distributed datasets is described
We study the problem of online regression
The adaptation rule for Vector Quantization algorithms, and consequently the convergence of the generated sequence, depends on the  existence and properties of a function called the energy function, defined on a topological manifold
The selection of features that are relevant for a prediction or classification problem is an important problem in many domains involving high-dimensional data
We describe the Median  SYMBOL -flats (MKF) algorithm, a simple online method for hybrid linear modeling, ie , for approximating data by a mixture of flats
Walley's Imprecise Dirichlet Model (IDM) for categorical  iid  \ data extends the classical Dirichlet model to a set of priors
We present an extension of Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and a new algorithm for clustering points in  SYMBOL  based on it
We describe an approach to domain adaptation that is appropriate exactly in the case when one has enough ``target'' data to do slightly better than just using only ``source'' data
This work describes a method of approximating matrix permanents efficiently using belief propagation
This paper addresses the problem of finding the nearest neighbor (or one of the R-nearest neighbors) of a query object  SYMBOL  in a database of  SYMBOL  objects
While in general trading off exploration and exploitation in reinforcement learning is hard, under some formulations relatively simple solutions exist
Models for near-rigid shape matching are typically based on distance-related features, in order to infer matches that are consistent with the isometric assumption
Combining the mutual information criterion with a forward feature selection strategy offers a good trade-off between optimality of the selected feature subset and computation time
This article considers constrained  SYMBOL  minimization methods for the recovery of high dimensional sparse signals in three settings: noiseless, bounded error and Gaussian noise
%   <- trailing '%' for backward compatibility of
We consider the problem of minimal correction of the training set to make it consistent with monotonic constraints
0 3cm Consider a class  SYMBOL  of  binary functions  SYMBOL   on a finite interval  SYMBOL
We present a method for learning max-weight matching predictors in bipartite graphs
Several researchers have recently investigated the connection between reinforcement learning and classification
We propose a randomized algorithm for   training Support vector machines(SVMs) on large datasets
In the past few years powerful generalizations to the Euclidean k-means problem have been made, such as Bregman clustering~ CITATION , co-clustering (i e , simultaneous clustering of rows and columns of an input matrix)~ CITATION , and tensor clustering~ CITATION
We present \searn, an algorithm for integrating \textsc{sear}ch and l\textsc{earn}ing to solve complex structured prediction problems such as those that occur in natural language, speech, computational biology, and vision \searn\ is a meta-algorithm that transforms these complex problems into simple classification problems to which any binary classifier may be applied
% In conventional supervised pattern recognition tasks, model selection is typically accomplished by minimizing the classification error rate on a set of so-called development data, subject to ground-truth labeling by human experts or some other means
We present a novel graphical framework for modeling non-negative sequential data with hierarchical structure
While statistics focusses on hypothesis testing and on estimating (properties of) the true sampling distribution, in machine learning the performance of learning algorithms on future data is the primary issue
We consider the task of opportunistic channel access in a primary system composed of independent Gilbert-Elliot channels where the secondary (or opportunistic) user does not dispose of a priori information regarding the statistical characteristics of the system
Ordinal regression is an important type of learning, which has properties of both classification and regression
Given a random binary sequence  SYMBOL  of random variables,  SYMBOL   SYMBOL , for instance, one that is generated by a Markov source of order  SYMBOL  (each state represented by  SYMBOL  bits)
Algorithm selection is typically based on models of algorithm performance,  learned during a separate  offline  training sequence, which can be  prohibitively expensive
We consider a class of fully stochastic and fully distributed algorithms, that we prove to learn equilibria in games
We consider the least-square linear regression problem with regularization by the  SYMBOL -norm, a problem usually referred to as the Lasso
A fundamental problem in artificial intelligence is that nobody really knows what intelligence is
We study the problem of dynamic spectrum sensing and access in cognitive radio systems as a partially observed Markov decision process (POMDP)
%   <- trailing '%' for backward compatibility of
General purpose intelligent learning agents cycle through (complex,non-MDP) sequences of observations, actions, and rewards
We introduce the Reduced-Rank Hidden Markov Model (RR-HMM), a generalization of HMMs that can model smooth state evolution as in Linear Dynamical Systems (LDSs) as well as non-log-concave predictive distributions as in continuous-observation HMMs
The problem of statistical learning is to construct an accurate predictor of a random variable as a function of a correlated random variable on the basis of an  iid  \ training sample from their joint distribution
The key approaches for machine learning, especially learning in unknown probabilistic environments are new representations and computation mechanisms
% Explaining adaptive behavior is a central problem in artificial intelligence research
We describe a preliminary investigation into learning a Chess player's style from game records
A method of  topological grammars  is proposed for multidimensional data approximation
Learning problems form an important category of computational tasks that generalizes many of the computations researchers apply to large real-life data sets
The Minimum Description Length (MDL) principle selects the model that has the shortest code for data plus model
Bounds on the risk play a crucial role in statistical learning theory
The purpose of this note is to show how the method of maximum entropy in the mean (MEM) may be used to improve parametric estimation when the measurements are corrupted by large level of noise
This paper introduces a principled approach for the design of a scalable general reinforcement learning agent
The problem of joint universal source coding and modeling, treated in the context of lossless codes by Rissanen, was recently generalized to fixed-rate lossy coding of finitely parametrized continuous-alphabet  iid 
In this paper, we propose the MIML ( Multi-Instance Multi-Label learning )
We present  multiplicative updates for solving hard  and soft margin support  vector  machines  (SVM)  with non-negative  kernels
Grammar inference deals with determining (preferable simple) models/grammars consistent with a set of observations
We study the problem of decision-theoretic online learning (DTOL)
This paper introduces a model based upon games on an evolving network, and develops three clustering algorithms according to it
One of the most utilized data mining tasks is the search for association rules
It is hard to exaggerate the role of economic aggregators --- functions that summarize numerous and / or heterogeneous data --- in economic models  since the early XX SYMBOL  century
We consider the design of cognitive Medium Access Control (MAC) protocols enabling an unlicensed (secondary) transmitter-receiver pair to communicate over the idle periods of a set of licensed channels, ie , the primary network
Despite the conventional wisdom that proactive security is superior to reactive security, we show that reactive security can be competitive with proactive security as long as the reactive defender learns from past attacks instead of myopically overreacting to the last attack
We propose a novel model for nonlinear dimension reduction motivated by the probabilistic formulation of principal component analysis
The games of prediction with expert advice are considered in this paper
We study the problem of estimating the time delay between two signals representing delayed, irregularly sampled and noisy versions of the same underlying pattern
Kolmogorov argued that the concept of information  exists also in problems with no underlying stochastic  model (as Shannon's information representation) for instance,  the information contained in an algorithm or in the genome
Feature Markov Decision Processes ( SYMBOL MDPs)  CITATION  are well-suited for learning agents in general environments
Learning machines that have  hierarchical structures or hidden variables  are singular statistical models because they are nonidentifiable and  their Fisher information matrices are singular
The method of defensive forecasting is applied to the problem of prediction with expert advice for binary outcomes
We describe a novel approach to statistical learning from particles tracked while moving in a random environment
% Sparse coding---that is, modelling data vectors as sparse linear combinations of basis elements---is widely used in machine learning, neuroscience, signal processing, and statistics
Principal component analysis (PCA) is a widely used technique for data  analysis and dimension reduction with numerous applications in science  and engineering
We address the problem of autonomously learning controllers for vision-capable mobile robots
We consider semi-supervised classification when part of the available data is unlabeled
We analyze the convergence behaviour of a recently proposed algorithm for regularized estimation called Dual Augmented Lagrangian (DAL)
Many learning machines that have hierarchical structure or hidden variables are now being used in information science, artificial intelligence, and bioinformatics
% This paper describes a methodology for detecting anomalies from sequentially observed and potentially noisy data
We consider computation of permanent of a positive  SYMBOL  non-negative matrix,
Using the game-theoretic framework for probability, Vovk and Shafer~ CITATION  have shown that it is always possible, using randomization, to make sequential probability forecasts that pass any countable set of well-behaved statistical tests
The cross-entropy method (CE) developed by R
We start from a simple asymptotic result for the problem of on-line regression with the quadratic loss function: the class of continuous limited-memory prediction strategies admits a ``leading prediction strategy'', which not only asymptotically performs at least as well as any continuous limited-memory strategy but also satisfies the property that the excess loss of any continuous limited-memory strategy is determined by how closely it imitates the leading strategy
We study the problem of partitioning a small sample of  SYMBOL  individuals  from a mixture of  SYMBOL  product distributions over a Boolean cube  SYMBOL   according to their distributions
For a variety of regularized optimization problems in machine learning,  algorithms computing the entire solution path have been developed recently
Recognizing analogies, synonyms, anto\-nyms, and associations appear to be four distinct tasks, requiring distinct NLP algorithms
In statistical problems, a set of parameterized  probability distributions is used to estimate  the true probability distribution
%   <- trailing '%' for backward compatibility of
In this paper we introduce the class of stationary prediction strategies and construct a prediction algorithm that asymptotically performs as well as the best continuous stationary strategy
We consider the framework of stochastic multi-armed bandit problems and study the possibilities
We study the a priori semimeasure of sets of  SYMBOL -random  infinite sequences, where  SYMBOL  is a family of probability distributions depending on a real parameter  SYMBOL
In multi-task learning several related tasks are considered simultaneously, with the hope that by an appropriate sharing of information across tasks, each task may benefit from the others
Clusters of genes that have evolved by repeated segmental duplication present difficult challenges throughout genomic analysis, from sequence assembly to functional analysis
We consider a problem of significant practical importance,  namely, the reconstruction of a low-rank data matrix from a small subset of its entries
The LETOR website    contains three information retrieval datasets used as a benchmark for testing machine learning ideas for ranking
Suppose we are given two probability measures on the set of one-way infinite finite-alphabet sequences and consider the question when one of the  measures predicts the other, that is, when conditional probabilities  converge (in a certain sense) when one of the measures is chosen to generate the sequence
We propose a novel non-parametric adaptive anomaly detection algorithm for high dimensional data based on score functions derived from nearest neighbor graphs on  SYMBOL -point nominal data
Inferring the sequence of states from observations is one of the most fundamental problems in Hidden Markov Models
We discuss multi-task online learning when a decision maker has to deal simultaneously with  SYMBOL  tasks
The remarkable results of Foster and Vohra was a starting point for a series of papers which show that any sequence of outcomes can be learned (with no prior knowledge) using some universal randomized forecasting algorithm and forecast-dependent checking rules
Assuming that the loss function is convex in the prediction, we construct a prediction strategy universal for the class of Markov prediction strategies, not necessarily continuous
Median clustering extends popular neural data analysis methods such as the self-organizing map or neural gas to general data structures given by a dissimilarity matrix only
Real-time object detection has many applications in video surveillance, teleconference and multimedia retrieval \etc
Counting  is a fundamental operation
Many AI researchers and cognitive scientists have argued that analogy is the core of cognition
Ensemble methods, such as stacking, are designed to boost predictive accuracy by blending the predictions of multiple machine learning models
Kohonen self-organisation maps are a well know classification tool, commonly used  in a wide variety of problems, but with limited applications in time series  forecasting context
We introduce an approach to inferring the causal architecture of stochastic dynamical systems that extends rate distortion theory to use causal shielding---a natural principle of learning
The problem of completing a low-rank matrix from a subset of its entries is often encountered in the analysis of incomplete data sets exhibiting an underlying factor model with applications in collaborative filtering, computer vision and control
Metric and kernel learning are important in several machine  learning applications
The problem of joint universal source coding and modeling, addressed by Rissanen in the context of lossless codes, is generalized to fixed-rate lossy coding of continuous-alphabet memoryless sources
We present an algorithmic framework for learning multiple related tasks
%%%% Replace with your abstract
Building rules on top of ontologies is the ultimate goal of the logical layer of the Semantic Web
We develop  abc-logitboost , based on the prior work on  abc-boost  CITATION  and  robust logitboost  CITATION
The learning of appropriate distance metrics is a critical problem in image classification and retrieval
Statistical learning theory chiefly studies restricted hypothesis classes,  particularly those with finite Vapnik-Chervonenkis (VC) dimension
The Bayesian framework is a well-studied and successful framework for inductive reasoning, which includes hypothesis testing and confirmation, parameter estimation, sequence prediction, classification, and regression
For a wide variety of regularization methods, algorithms computing the entire solution path have been developed recently
In a multi-armed bandit problem, an online algorithm chooses from a set of strategies in a sequence of  SYMBOL  trials so as to maximize the total payoff of the chosen strategies
The enormous successes have been made by quantum algorithms during the last decade
We study boosting algorithms from a new perspective
The method of  stable random projections  is a  tool for efficiently computing the  SYMBOL    distances using low memory, where  SYMBOL  is a tuning parameter
Regularization by the sum of singular values, also referred to as the   trace norm , is a popular technique for estimating  low rank rectangular matrices
Much recent work in bioinformatics has focused on the inference of various types of biological networks, representing gene regulation, metabolic processes, protein-protein interactions, etc
Research in reinforcement learning has produced algorithms for optimal decision making under uncertainty that fall within two main types
Competitive on-line prediction (also known as universal prediction of individual sequences) is a strand of learning theory avoiding making any stochastic assumptions about the way the observations are generated
Supervised learning deals with the inference of a distribution over an output or label space  SYMBOL  conditioned on points in an observation space  SYMBOL , given a training dataset  SYMBOL  of pairs in  SYMBOL
The exploration-exploitation dilemma has been an intriguing and unsolved problem within the framework of reinforcement learning ``Optimism in the face of uncertainty'' and model building play central roles in advanced exploration methods
Because query execution is the most crucial part of Inductive Logic Programming (ILP) algorithms, a lot of effort is invested in developing faster execution mechanisms
A  SYMBOL -adic modification of the split-LBG classification method is presented in which first clusterings and then cluster centers  are computed which locally minimise an energy function
We consider regularized support vector machines (SVMs) and show that they are precisely equivalent to a new robust optimization formulation
Information distance is a parameter-free similarity measure based on compression, used in pattern recognition, data mining, phylogeny, clustering, and classification
We present a general approach for collaborative filtering (CF) using spectral regularization to learn linear operators from ``users'' to a set of possibly desired ``objects''
In this paper, we consider the coherent theory of (epistemic) uncertainty of Walley, in which beliefs are represented through sets of probability distributions, and we focus on the problem of modeling prior ignorance about a categorical random variable
This paper uses the notion of algorithmic stability to derive novel generalization bounds for several families of transductive regression algorithms, both by using convexity and closed-form solutions
Dirichlet process (DP) mixture models provide a flexible Bayesian framework for density estimation
We propose a general method called truncated gradient to induce sparsity in the weights of online learning algorithms with convex loss functions
We introduce a simple framework for learning aggressive maneuvers in flight control of UAVs
The problem of multi--agent learning and adaptation has attracted a great deal of attention in recent years
We prove that mutual information is actually negative copula entropy, based on which a method for mutual information estimation is proposed
Markov random fields are used to model high dimensional distributions in a number of applied areas
Two ubiquitous aspects of large-scale data analysis are that the data often
% %AG_18/04/08 Update to abstract We propose a framework for analyzing and comparing distributions, allowing us to design statistical tests to determine if two samples are drawn from different distributions
Consider the problem of joint parameter estimation and prediction in a Markov random field: ie , the model parameters are estimated on the basis of an initial set of data, and then the fitted model is used to perform prediction (e g , smoothing, denoising, interpolation) on a new noisy observation
Many reinforcement learning exploration techniques are overly optimistic and try to explore every state
Given a sample covariance matrix, we examine the problem of maximizing the variance explained by a linear combination of the input variables while constraining the number of nonzero coefficients in this combination
Sampling-based methods have previously been proposed for the problem of finding interesting associations in data, even for low-support items
One property of networks that has received comparatively little attention is hierarchy, ie , the property of having vertices that cluster together in groups, which then join to form groups of groups, and so forth, up through all levels of organization in the network
We propose a method for support vector machine classification using indefinite kernels
We consider the problem of estimating the conditional probability of a label in time  SYMBOL , where  SYMBOL  is the number of possible labels
This paper introduces a new approach to solve sensor management problems
{ We consider a general class of regularization methods which learn a vector of parameters on the basis of linear measurements
In a recent breakthrough, [Bshouty et al , 2005] obtained the first passive-lear\-ning algorithm for DNFs under the uniform distribution
In probabilistic grammatical inference, a usual goal is to infer a good approximation of an unknown distribution  SYMBOL  called a  stochastic language
In large systems, it is important for agents to learn to act effectively, but sophisticated multi-agent learning algorithms generally do not scale
A collaborative filtering system recommends to users products that similar users like
We consider a multi-round auction setting motivated by pay-per-click auctions for Internet advertising
Catalogs of periodic variable stars contain large numbers of periodic light-curves (photometric time series data from the astrophysics domain)
We show how text from news articles can be used to predict intraday price movements of financial assets using support vector machines
Text of abstract We present a family of pairwise tournaments reducing  SYMBOL -class classification to binary classification
We present a novel approach for learning nonlinear dynamic models, which leads to a new set of tools capable of solving problems that are otherwise difficult
An approach to the classification problem of machine learning, based on building local classification rules, is developed
We investigate the problem of learning a topic model -- the well-known Latent Dirichlet Allocation -- in a distributed manner, using a cluster of C processors and dividing the corpus to be learned equally among them
Cooperative decision making is a vision of future network management and control
For   dimension reduction in  SYMBOL , the method of  Cauchy random projections  multiplies the original data matrix  SYMBOL  with a random matrix  SYMBOL  ( SYMBOL ) whose entries are  iid 
Conformal prediction uses past experience to determine precise levels of confidence in new predictions
Symbolic dynamics has proven to be an invaluable tool in analyzing the mechanisms that lead to unpredictability and random behavior in nonlinear dynamical systems
The Lipschitz multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem generalizes the classical multi-armed bandit problem by assuming one is given side information consisting of a priori upper bounds on the difference in expected payoff between certain pairs of strategies
The large number of spectral variables in most data sets encountered in spectral chemometrics often renders the prediction of a dependent variable uneasy
In a sensor network, in practice, the communication among sensors is subject to:  The signal-to-noise ratio~(SNR) is usually a main factor in determining the probability of error (or of communication failure) in a link
We examine the complexity of learning the distributions produced by finite-state quantum sources
We present a novel approach to semi-supervised learning  which is based on statistical physics
%\baselineskip=18pt Recent spectral clustering methods are a propular and powerful technique for data clustering
We consider the least-square linear regression problem with regularization by the  SYMBOL -norm, a problem usually referred to as the Lasso
Approximation of the optimal two-part MDL code for given data, through successive  monotonically length-decreasing two-part MDL codes, has the following properties: (i) computation of each step may take arbitrarily long; (ii) we may not know when we reach the optimum, or whether we will reach the optimum at all; (iii) the sequence of models generated may not monotonically improve the goodness of fit;  but (iv) the model associated with the optimum has (almost) the best goodness of fit
The goal of the present paper is to provide a systematic and comprehensive study of  rational stochastic languages  over a semiring  SYMBOL
We consider the problem of choosing a density estimate from a set of distributions~ SYMBOL , minimizing the  SYMBOL -distance to an unknown distribution ( CITATION )
Given  iid  \ data from an unknown distribution, we consider the problem of predicting future items
We introduce  algorithmic information theory , also known as the theory of  Kolmogorov complexity
This paper presents studies on a deterministic annealing algorithm based on quantum annealing for variational Bayes (QAVB) inference, which can be seen as an extension of the simulated annealing for variational Bayes (SAVB) inference
In this paper we apply computer learning methods to diagnosing ovarian cancer using the level of the standard biomarker CA125 in conjunction with information provided by mass-spectrometry
There are at least two kinds of similarity
% Given a matrix  SYMBOL  of low-rank, we consider the problem of reconstructing it from noisy observations of a small, random subset of its entries
In the process of training Support Vector Machines~(SVMs) by decomposition methods, working set selection is an important technique, and some exciting schemes were employed into this field
Many applications in machine learning and data mining require computing  pairwise  SYMBOL  distances in a data matrix  SYMBOL
the sunk cost fallacy is the tendency to continue an endeavour once an investment in money  effort  or time has been made
judgment and decision making research overwhelmingly uses null hypothesis significance testing as the basis for statistical inference
the goal of obtaining information to improve classification accuracy can strongly conflict with the goal of obtaining information for improving payoffs
people have been shown to delay decision making to wait for missing noninstrumental attribute information - information that would not have altered their decision if known at the outset - with this delay originally attributed to uncertainty obscuring one's true preference  CITATION
economic games involving allocation of resources have been a useful tool for the study of decision making for both psychologists and economists
previous research has demonstrated that bayesian reasoning performance is improved if uncertainty information is presented as natural frequencies rather than single-event probabilities
often research in judgment and decision making requires comparison of multiple competing models
this paper examines how observing other people's behavior affects risk taking in repeated decision tasks
standard preference models in consumer research assume that people weigh and add all attributes of the available options to derive a decision  while there is growing evidence for the use of simplifying heuristics
physicians often encounter diagnostic problems with ambiguous and conflicting features
many judgment analysis studies employ multiple regression procedures to estimate the importance of cues
researchers frequently argue that within-subjects designs should be avoided because they result in research hypotheses that are transparent to the subjects in the study
one major statistical and methodological challenge in judgment and decision making research is the reliable identification of individual decision strategies by selection of diagnostic tasks  that is  tasks for which predictions of the strategies differ sufficiently
is variety of the spice of life
despite their efforts to choose the best of all available solutions  maximizers seem to be more inclined than satisficers to regret their choices and to experience post-decisional dissonance
we examine how adding an attractive but unattainable alternative aua to a set of available but less attractive alternatives influences evaluations of near vs distant future sets of alternatives
indecisiveness is an individual difference measure of chronic difficulty and delay in decision making
inferences about target variables can be achieved by deliberate integration of probabilistic cues or by retrieving similar cue-patterns exemplars from memory
this study compares judgments of the fairness of economic actions among survey populations in switzerland  and both student and non-student groups in the people's republic of china  with the earlier kahneman  knetsch and thaler  CITATION  surveys of canadians
would you redirect a trolley to save five people even if it means that the trolley will run over a person on the side track
the endowment effect has been debated for over  NUMBER  years
in this paper i explore how the evolution of emotional expression and co-operative planning in humans may inform the way they communicate about risks  and what implication this may have for models of rationality in risk communication
which statement conveys greater risk    NUMBER  people die from cancer every day  or   NUMBER   NUMBER  people die from cancer every year 
some studies have found that choices become more risk averse after gains and more risk seeking after losses  although other studies have found the opposite
anchoring effects  the assimilation of numerical estimates to previously considered standards  are highly robust
open-ended methods that elicit willingness-to-pay wtp in terms of absolute dollars often result in high rates of questionable and highly skewed responses  insensitivity to changes in health state  and raise an ethical issue related to its association with personal income
according to the time-saving bias  drivers underestimate the time saved when increasing from a low speed and overestimate the time saved when increasing from a relatively high speed
before the recent recession evoked general dismay and uncertainty  this study examined the relative contribution of income and the concern over financial security to life satisfaction
popular culture reflects whatever piques our imagination
laboratory studies of choice and decision making among real monetary rewards typically use smaller real rewards than those common in real life
we study individual decision making in a lottery-choice task performed by three different populations  gamblers under psychological treatment    NUMBER  ddicts   gamblers' spouses  victims   and people who are neither gamblers or gamblers' spouses  normals 
 waste not want not  expresses our culture's aversion to waste
this study directly tests the hypothesis that  at least within the domains of food and drink for americans  the judgment of naturalness has more to do with the history of an object  that is the processes that it has undergone  as opposed to its material content
we asked jurors awaiting trial assignment to listen to a recorded synopsis of an authentic criminal trial and to make a choice among  NUMBER  verdict possibilities
experiments have suggested that decisions from experience differ from decisions from description
the recognition heuristic  CITATION  makes the counter-intuitive prediction that a decision maker utilizing less information may do as well as  or outperform  an idealized decision maker utilizing more information
three experiments investigated individuals' preferences and affective reactions to negative life experiences
affective forecasting skills have important implications for decision making
we introduce the berlin numeracy test  a new psychometrically sound instrument that quickly assesses statistical numeracy and risk literacy
several scholars have recognized the limitations of theories of moral reasoning in explaining moral behavior
we compare and critique two measures of risk perception
the group-diffusion effect is the tendency for people to judge themselves to be less likely to experience a negative outcome as the total number of people exposed to the threat increases - even when the probability of the outcome is explicitly presented  CITATION
diener and colleagues  CITATION  illustrated that individuals rely heavily on endings to evaluate the quality of a life
contrary to the common belief that more information is always better  gigerenzer et al CITATION  showed that simple decision strategies which rely on little information can be quite successful
we examine two departures of individual perceptions of randomness from probability theory  the hot hand and the gambler's fallacy  and their respective opposites
across many real-world domains  men engage in more risky behaviors than do women
we report an experiment exploring sequential context effects on strategy choices in one-shot prisoner's dilemma pd game
five experiments addressed a controversy in the probability judgment literature that centers on the efficacy of framing probabilities as frequencies
in the current paper we investigate how feedback over decision outcomes may affect future decisions
decision making research often dichotomises between more deliberative  cognitive processes and more heuristic  intuitive and emotional processes
we investigated how frequency and amount of punishment affect the decision making of iranian subjects
we compare experts' judgments of the appropriateness of a treatment interferon treatment for melanoma on the basis of important attributes of this disease thickness  ulceration  lymph node involvement and type of metastases to a decision analytic model in which the probabilities of deterioration are derived from the medical literature and from epidemiological studies
overprecision is the most robust type of overconfidence
when people learn to make decisions from experience  a reasonable intuition is that additional relevant information should improve their performance
oppenheimer and monin  CITATION  recently found that subjectively rare events are taken to indicate a longer preceding sequence of unobserved trials than subjectively common events  an effect which they refer to as the retrospective gambler's fallacy
we analyze behavior in two basic classes of decision tasks  description-based and experience-based
vlaev and chater  CITATION  demonstrated that the cooperativeness of previously seen prisoner's dilemma games biases choices and predictions in the current game
judgments of naturalness of foods tend to be more influenced by the process history of a food  rather than its actual constituents
in markets with asymmetric information  only sellers have knowledge about the quality of goods
many natural decisions contain an element of skill
a wise decider d uses the contents of his mind fully  accurately and efficiently
we investigated the role of individual differences in cognitive reflection in decision making
the recognition heuristic  CITATION  suggests that  when applicable  probabilistic inferences are based on a noncompensatory examination of whether an object is recognized or not
researchers typically use incentives such as money or course credit in order to obtain participants who engage in the specific behaviors of interest to the researcher
the impact of default options on choice is a reliable  well-established behavioral finding
researchers know very little about how people choose mates
the current study looks at the role working memory plays in risky-choice framing
using a cognitive task mental calculation and a perceptual-motor task stylized golf putting  we examined differential proficiency using the cws index and several other quantitative measures of performance
we report a preliminary study that compared decisions made in an oxygen depleted environment with those made in a normoxic environment
we present the concordant-ranks cr strategy that decision makers use to quickly find an alternative that is proximate to an ideal alternative in a multi-attribute decision space
people prefer their own initials to other letters  influencing preferences in many domains
research has shown that people perceive themselves as less biased than others  and as better than average in many favorable characteristics
we report a study of the effects the choice set on financial decision making related to retirement savings and risky investment
the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of perceived time pressure on a learning-based task called the iowa gambling task igt
in three studies  we examined factors that may temporarily attenuate information search
binary sequences are characterized by various features
sacred values are different from secular values in that they are often associated with violations of the cost-benefit logic of rational choice models
we compared turkish and english students' soccer forecasting for english soccer matches
magical beliefs about contagion via contact  CITATION  may emerge when people overgeneralize real-world mechanisms of contamination beyond their appropriate boundaries  CITATION
we explored how the perspective through which individuals view their actions influences their ethicality  comparing a narrow perspective that allows for evaluation of each choice in isolation  to a broad perspective that promotes an aggregate view of one's choices
conflict over iran's nuclear program  which involves a us-led policy to impose sanctions on iran  is perceived by each side as a preeminent challenge to its own national security and global peace
whereas much literature exists on  choice overload   less is known about effects of numbers of alternatives in donation decisions
impaired decision behavior has been repeatedly observed in schizophrenia patients
the aim of this article is to evaluate the contribution of process tracing data to the development and testing of models of judgment and decision making jdm
we investigated the extent to which the human capacity for recognition helps to forecast political elections  we compared naive recognition-based election forecasts computed from convenience samples of citizens' recognition of party names to i standard polling forecasts computed from representative samples of citizens' voting intentions  and to ii simple-and typically very accurate-wisdom-of-crowds-forecasts computed from the same convenience samples of citizens' aggregated hunches about election results
people report themselves to be above average on simple tasks and below average on difficult tasks
background  the domain-specific risk taking scale dospert is a widely used instrument that measures perceived risk and benefit and attitude toward risk for activities in several domains  but does not include medical risks
labeling a food as  organic  entails a claim about its production but is silent on its calorie content
the recognition heuristic assumes that people make inferences based on the output of recognition memory
patients suffering from the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia ftd-b often exaggerate their abilities
this research examines the relationship between positive and negative perceptions of pensions and motivation to engage in the decision process of choosing a private pension plan  as well as satisfaction from the chosen pension plan  among trained economists
taking a falsificationist perspective  the present paper identifies two major shortcomings of existing approaches to comparative model evaluations in general and strategy classifications in particular
very small but cumulated decreases in food intake may be sufficient to erase obesity over a period of years
using kahneman and tversky's life-death decision paradigm  wang and colleagues CITATION have shown two characteristic phenomena regarding people's attitude to risk when the contextual group size is manipulated
in this paper  i trace the evolution of the aircraft cockpit as an example of the transformation of a probabilistic environment into an ecological hybrid  that is  an environment characterized by both probabilistic and deterministic features and elements
we perform an experimental investigation using a dictator game in which individuals must make a moral decision - to give or not to give an amount of money to poor people in the third world
many controversies in medical science can be framed as tension between a coherence approach which seeks logic and explanation and a correspondence approach which emphasizes empirical correctness
how many judgment and decision making jdm researchers have not claimed to be building on herbert simon's work
this article presents several studies that replicate and extend previous research on maximizing
in this article a broad perspective incorporating elements of time series theory is presented for conceptualizing the data obtained in multi-trial judgment experiments
an intrapersonal externality exists when an individual's decisions affect the outcomes of her future decisions
according to recent dual-process theories  interpersonal trust is influenced by both impulsive and deliberative processes
the  less is more effect  lime occurs when a recognition-dependent agent has a greater probability of choosing the better item than a more knowledgeable agent who recognizes more items
currently  a disparity exists between the process-level models decision researchers use to describe and predict decision behavior and the methods implemented and metrics collected to test these models
numerical predictions are of central interest for both coherence-based approaches to judgment and decisions - the heuristic and biases hb program in particular - and to correspondence-based approaches - social judgment theory sjt
this article presents a theory of reasoning about moral propositions that is based on four fundamental principles
the recognition heuristic exploits the basic psychological capacity for recognition in order to make inferences about unknown quantities in the world
runs of gains and losses are particularly salient to decision makers because of their perceived departure from randomness  as well as their immediate impact on the financial status of the decision makers
hypotheses about decision processes are often formulated qualitatively and remain silent about the interplay of decision  memorial  and other cognitive processes
slowing climate change will almost certainly require a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions  but agreement on who should reduce emissions by how much is difficult  in part because of the self-serving bias-the tendency to believe that what is beneficial to oneself is also fair
previous research has shown an association between emotions  particularly social emotions  and moral judgments
this paper compares the behavior of individuals playing a classic two-person deterministic prisoner's dilemma pd game with choice data obtained from repeated interdependent security prisoner's dilemma games with varying probabilities of loss and the ability to learn or not learn about the actions of one's counterpart  an area of recent interest in experimental economics
most american respondents give  irrational   magical responses in a variety of situations that exemplify the sympathetic magical laws of similarity and contagion
several approaches to judgment and decision making emphasize the effort-reducing properties of heuristics
a four-fold classification of emotions with respect to their functions in decision making is proposed
using five variants of the asian disease problem  we dissected the risky-choice framing effect by requiring each participant to provide preference ratings for the full decision problem and also to provide attractiveness ratings for each of the component parts  i e   the sure-thing option and the risky option
eyal  t
this paper uses proprietary data from a blackjack table in las vegas to analyze how the expectation of regret affects peoples' decisions during gambles
several studies propose that exemplar retrieval contributes to multi-attribute decisions
by manipulating the scale in graphs  this study demonstrated a new evaluation bias caused by attribute salience in graphical representations
this paper examines conditions that do or do not lead to accurate judgments of frequency jof and judgments of duration jod
one major challenge to behavioral decision research is to identify the cognitive processes underlying judgment and decision making
three experiments demonstrate how the processing of negations is contingent on the evaluation context in which the negative information is presented
auctions  normally considered as devices facilitating trade  also provide a way to probe mechanisms governing one's valuation of some good or action
this paper explores the psychology of conflict of interest by investigating how conflicting interests affect both public statements and private judgments
decision research in psychology has traditionally been influenced by the homo oeconomicus metaphor with its emphasis on normative models and deviations from the predictions of those models
narrow self-interest is often used as a simplifying assumption when studying people making decisions in social contexts
previous research on the role of choice set size in decision making has focused on decision outcomes and satisfaction
the recognition heuristic models the adaptive use and dominant role of recognition knowledge in judgment under uncertainty
the current study examines the construct validity of the maximization scale  CITATION  and the maximization tendency scale  CITATION   as well as the nomological net of the maximizing construct
fiedler et al CITATION   reviewed evidence for the utilization of a contingency inference strategy termed pseudocontingencies pcs
it is a long known problem that the preferential publication of statistically significant results publication bias may lead to incorrect estimates of the true effects being investigated
as the study of moral judgments grows  it becomes imperative to compare results across studies in order to create unified theories within the field
individual differences in cognitive abilities and skills can predict normatively superior and logically consistent judgments and decisions
decision makers are often ambiguity averse  preferring options with subjectively known probabilities to options with unknown probabilities
participants decided whom of two patients to prioritize for surgery in three studies
individual true and error theory assumes that responses by the same person to the same choice problem within a block of trials are based on the same true preferences but may show preference reversals due to random error
despite vigorous research on risk communication  little is known about the social forces that drive these choices
previous research demonstrates overestimation of rare events in judgment tasks  and underweighting of rare events in decisions from experience
excess choice has previously been shown to have detrimental effects on decisions about consumer products
a recent study indicates that acute stress affects moral decision making youssef et al   in press
health care resource allocation is a central moral issue in health policy  and opinions about it have been studied extensively
the deliberation without attention dwa effect refers to apparent improvements in decision-making following a period of distraction
people live in a world in which they are surrounded by potential disgust elicitors such as  used  chairs  air  silverware  and money as well as excretory activities
in this paper  we document a violation of normative and descriptive models of decision making under risk
measuring reaction times to number comparisons is thought to reveal a processing stage in elementary numerical cognition linked to internal  imprecise representations of number magnitudes
subjects performed a decision task  CITATION  in both a well-rested and experimentally sleep-deprived state
hammond  CITATION  argued that much of the research in the field of judgment and decision making jdm can be categorized as focused on either coherence or correspondence c and c and that  in order to understand the findings of the field  one needs to understand the differences between these two criteria
 very small but cumulated decreases in food intake may be sufficient to have significant effects  even erasing obesity over a period of years   CITATION
recent research suggesting that people who maximize are less happy than those who satisfice has received considerable fanfare
research has shown that framing messages in terms of benefits or detriments can have a substantial influence on intended behavior
while risk research focuses on actions that put people at risk  this paper introduces the concept of  passive risk -risk brought on or magnified by inaction
the recognition heuristic rh - which predicts non-compensatory reliance on recognition in comparative judgments - has attracted much research and some disagreement  at times
in recent years  numerous studies comparing intuition and deliberation have been published
an experimental test of the descriptive adequacy of the restated diversification principle is presented
when survey respondents rate the quality of life qol associated with a health condition  they must not only evaluate the health condition itself  but must also interpret the meaning of the rating scale in order to assign a specific value
we examine how almost winning in roulette affects subsequent betting behavior
we designed an experiment to test the robustness of dana  weber  and kuang's dwk   NUMBER  results
when participants in psychophysical experiments are asked to estimate or identify stimuli which differ on a single physical dimension  their judgments are influenced by the local experimental context - the item presented and judgment made on the previous trial
the present article investigates the effectiveness of methods traditionally used to distinguish between the emotions of regret and disappointment and presents a new method - the regret and disappointment scale rds - for assessing the two emotions in decision making research
dynamic  connectionist models of decision making  such as decision field theory  CITATION   propose that the effect of context on choice arises from a series of pairwise comparisons between attributes of alternatives across time
an important open problem is how values are compared to make simple choices
prior research has found mixed evidence for the long-theorized link between religiosity and pro-social behavior
difficulty making decisions is one of the symptoms of the depressive illness
when making decisions that involve tradeoffs between the quality and timing of desirable outcomes  people consistently discount the value of future outcomes
using a stochastic dominance approach in an international dataset of about  NUMBER   NUMBER  catholic subjects  we show that incentives based on absolute belief play a crucial role in religious practice church attendance and prayer
inferences consistent with  recognition-based  decision-making may be drawn for various reasons other than recognition alone
shame leads to devaluation of the social self  and thus to a desire to improve self-esteem
the advantage of models that do not use flexible parameters is that one can precisely show to what degree they predict behavior  and in what situations
this paper develops tests of independence and stationarity in choice data collected with small samples
we report an experiment exploring sequential context effects on strategy choices in one-shot prisoner's dilemma pd game
most people are caring and will exert great effort to rescue individual victims whose needy plight comes to their attention
the present research investigated the relationship between individual differences in maximizing versus satisficing i e   seeking to make the single best choice  rather than a choice that is merely good enough and well-being  in interaction with the society in which an individual lives
when faced with a choice  people can normally select no option  i e   defer choice
the history of judgment and decision making is defined by a trend toward increasingly nuanced explanations of the decision making process
using college student samples  two studies were conducted to validate the chinese version of the domain-specific risk-taking dospert scale
the calibration of probability or confidence judgments concerns the association between the judgments and some estimate of the correct probabilities of events
a type of emergency decision-making which has not received research attention is the police search for a lost person in a rural or wilderness area
research has identified loss aversion as a strong and robust phenomenon  but has also revealed some moderators affecting the magnitude of its effect on decision making
genetic screening for brca NUMBER  and brca NUMBER  gives women the opportunity for early detection  surveillance  and intervention
we compare four different risk-taking propensity measures on their ability to describe and to predict actual risky behavior in the domain of health
we conducted three studies to investigate how well pictographs communicate medical screening information to persons with higher and lower numeracy skills
we evaluate dijksterhuis  bos  van der leij   and  van baaren  CITATION   psychological science  on the benefit of unconscious thinking in predicting the outcomes of soccer matches
individual differences in decision making are a topic of longstanding interest  but often yield inconsistent and contradictory results
it has been proposed that recognition can form the basis of simple but ecologically rational decision strategies CITATION
although the priority heuristic ph is conceived as a cognitive-process model  some of its critical process assumptions remain to be tested
two experiments examined the benefits of unconscious thought on complex decisions  CITATION
affective forecasting with respect to two environmental risks ozone depletion  air pollution was investigated by studying tourists who travelled to either australia or bangkok and were thus confronted with one of these risks
the assumption that people possess a repertoire of strategies to solve the inference problems they face has been made repeatedly
the theory of planned behaviour  CITATION  is based on a utility framework  and the risk-as-feelings hypothesis  CITATION  is a feelings-based behavioural model
although many models for risky choices between gambles assume that information is somehow integrated  the recently proposed priority heuristic ph claims that choices are based on one piece of information only
recently it has been observed that different choices can be made about structurally identical risky decisions depending on whether information about outcomes and their probabilities is learned by description or from experience
the deliberation-without-attention effect occurs when better decisions are made when people experience a period of distraction before a decision than when they make decisions immediately or when they spend time reflecting on the alternatives
most prior research on the compromise effect has focused on single rather than multiple choices
schelling  CITATION  observed that macro-level patterns do not necessarily reflect micro-level intentions  desires or goals
research in judgment and decision making generally ignores the distinction between factual and subjective feelings of ownership  tacitly assuming that the two correspond closely
we employed simple gambles to investigate information processing in relation to the compatibility effect
previous research has demonstrated that consistency between people's behavior and their dispositions has predictive validity for judgments of regret
the tempting fate effect is that the probability of a fateful outcome is deemed higher following an action that  tempts  the outcome than in the absence of such an action
this study employs a discrete choice experiment dce in the health-care sector to test the loss aversion theory that is derived from reference-dependent preferences  the absolute subjective value of a deviation from a reference point is generally greater when the deviation represents a loss than when the same-sized change is perceived as a gain
although theories from economics and evolutionary biology predict that one's age  health  and survival probability should be associated with one's subjective discount rate sdr  few studies have empirically tested for these links
the principle of loss aversion is thought to explain a wide range of anomalous phenomena involving tradeoffs between losses and gains
the ratio-bias rb phenomenon is considered to provide systematic evidence of irrationality
people make systematic and predictable mistakes regarding estimations of average speed and journey time
people tend to overestimate emotional responses to future events
in this paper we investigate the claim that decisions from experience in which the features of lotteries are learned through a sampling process differ from decisions from description in which features of lotteries are explicitly described
studying group decision-making is challenging for multiple reasons
research endeavors to determine the effectiveness of patient decision aids ptdas have yielded mixed results
often to the detriment of human decision making  people are prone to an impact bias when making affective forecasts  overestimating the emotional consequences of future events
knowing what event precipitated a clien
